--- Common Steps ---
# 3.1 Installing and Setting Up SDKMAN! (v5.8.2)

SDKMAN! is a great peice of software that allows you to install multiple verions of all 
sorts of different packages, languages, and more.


1. First, install curl
> `sudo apt instal curl -y`

1. Then, install SDKMAN! with
> `curl -s "https://get.sdkman.io" | bash `

1. Ensure that the following entry is made in .bashrc.
> ```
	#THIS MUST BE AT THE END OF THE FILE FOR SDKMAN TO WORK!!!
	export SDKMAN_DIR="/home/guru/.sdkman"
	[[ -s "/home/guru/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh" ]] && source "/home/guru/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh"
```
> If the entry is not present, excecute the following command <br>
> `echo "source ~/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh" >> ~/.bashrc`

1. Next, we need to install a java version. List out all java versions, execute
> `sdk ls`

1. Install Java 1.8
> `sdk install <software> <Identifier>` <br> 
<br>
> NOTE: For me, this command is: <br>
> `sdk install java 8.0.252.hs-adpt`
	
1. SDKMAN! candidates are installed, by default at 
> `~/.sdkman/candidates` <br> 
<br>
> **NOTE:** The current symlink (inside the Java directory) points to whichever java version you are currently using.

1. You can install multiple version by following the above steps. To switch between the versions use the following:
> `sdk install java 13.0.2.hs-adpt` <br>
> `sdk use <software> <identifier>` <br>
> <br>
> To switch between versions: <br>
> `sdk use java 13.0.2.hs-adpt` <br>
> <br>
> NOTE: To show version being currently used: <br>
> `sdk - 'sdk (c|current)' or 'java -version'`

8. Finally, set JAVA_HOME variable using the following command:
> `echo "export JAVA_HOME=\$(readlink -f \$(which java) | sed 's:bin/java::')" >> ~/.bashrc` <br>
> NOTE: To verify the success of the step, echo-ing java home variable should return its path: <br>
> `echo $JAVA_HOME`
	
9. You can also set default version by using the following command:
> `sdk default <software> <identifier>` <br>
> `sdk default java 8.0.252.hs-adpt`
	
10. To unistall an sdk, use:
> `sdk unistall <software> <version>`
	
	
## Sources
1. [Main](https://dev.to/awwsmm/installing-and-running-hadoop-and-spark-on-ubuntu-18-393h)
2. [Setting default version and uninstalling an SDK](https://hackernoon.com/using-sdkman-to-manage-java-versions-7fde0d38c501)
